hello and welcome to this week's DW
business special I'm marizen in Berlin
welcome today we will be looking at who
is funding Hamas terrorist activities
against
Israel for its incursion Hamas has used
thousands of drones and Rockets and
carried out cyber attacks the conflict
has raised questions as to how the group
is able to finance these complex attacks
Israeli retaliation also has enormous
costs for the economy of the Gaza Strip
which is under Hamas
rule joining me for this conversation is
Matthew levit he's the director of the
program on counterterrorism and
intelligence at the Washington Institute
for NE East policy thank you for joining
us today
Matthew thanks for having me Matthew
Hamas has been using drones cyber
attacks and Rockets against Israel where
is it getting the funding for these
weapons
from hamas's funding streams have
changed over the years in particular in
2007 when Hamas took over the Gaza Strip
by Force of Arms pointing its guns not
at Israel in that instance Israel had
already withdrawn but against
Palestinians once it controlled
territory it was able to tax some might
say extort the local population uh and
that is its primary source of income
right now the second most important uh
source of income and this is something
that has been consistent over decades
since the founding of Hamas in the late
1980s is funding from Hamas US
Government estimates that Iran provides
Hamas somewhere between 70 and hundred
million dollar a year probably
additional funds in moments of Crisis
like this and that has been constant
that is money that is inine that is
weapons there's on top of that training
intelligence support Etc and then Hamas
gets some money from other states that
are trying to support humanitarian uh
stability in Gaza for example the state
of katar provides salaries for Hamas
employees even if that actually goes to
Hamas employees it frees up funds for
other things Hamas has Investments and
they have people Who oversee their
Investments the US government has
designated persons in turkey and Jordan
for example who sit on the Hamas finance
committee overseeing their investments
in the
region and finally Hamas raises funds
through through uh front organizations
illegitimate Charities and some
Charities that pretend to be legitimate
raising funds publicly for needy
Palestinians which of course is a
legitimate purpose but in fact taking
that money and providing it to Hamas and
there have been a series of cases
recently people arrested in Israel a
father and daughter team in the
Netherlands arrested just uh a couple of
months ago in that case reportedly
having raised over five million euro for
Hamas right so a lot of uh things to
unpack here but let me start by asking
Hamas has been designated a terrorist
organization by the US by the EU and
other Western governments it's
sanctioned it's cut off from the
international banking system how come
that doesn't seem to be
successful well in the first instance
because it's not cut off in the
International Financial system just
because for example the European Union
has designated all of Hamas as a
terrorist organization doesn't mean that
they've taken any effective action based
on that Authority and most accounts are
not going to be in the name of Hamas
Incorporated so it it requires
intelligence and law enforcement
investigations to be able to identify
that and frankly most security cter
terrorism investigators prosecutors over
the past few years have been focused on
other things from the Islamic State in
al-Qaeda more recently Iranian
assassinations around the world and so
they're not entirely cut off the second
reason is that they're not only using
the formal Financial system they
frequently use money exchange houses or
haala which is an informal way of
transferring money from one place to
another where money actually doesn't
actually move just like value moves and
also there's a tremendous amount of
Reliance on trade-based money laundering
so if you are a Hamas leader in turkey
or Lebanon and you want to send funds to
the Gaza Strip you don't send $10,000
you send $110,000 worth of sugar or
wheat or some other basic commodity that
would be needed by people but you send
it to someone that is affiliated with
Hamas and they can either then use that
material for their own people or sell it
and have the
benefit right okay so circumventing a
lot of the sanctions there what role
does cryptocurrency play for
Hamas Hamas has used cryptocurrency and
here in the United States the Department
of Justice has taken several public
actions targeting amas cryptocurrency
campaigns Seas
wallets for example the Israelis have
done the same just since even the uh the
the attacks um the Israelis have seized
additional wallets it does not seem to
be a primary means of moving funds and I
should say this as a way of moving the
funds not so much raising it in the
first instance but it is something that
people are watching and that is
increasing right and talking about these
funds do we know how much Hamas actually
needs to sustain itself
we don't know exactly uh most people
estimate somewhere around 300 or $400
million and that includes all of hamas's
salaries garbage
collection all the things that go into
governance but what Hamas has made very
very very clear especially over the past
few days is that it prioritizes its
militancy over its governance our Think
Tank the Washington Institute recently
published a poll taken in July
demonstrating that an overwhelming
majority of Palestinians including
Palestinians in the Gaza Strip are not
happy with Hamas Rule and would prefer
the Palestinian Authority to be there
recently Hamas taking 150 hostages or at
least 130 120 some are believed to being
held by Palestinian Islamic
Jihad Israelis are saying and it's quite
controversial but the Israelis are
saying they're going to put they are
putting Gaza under Complete Siege the
idea is to give Hamas the choice are you
going to prioritize the needs of your
constituency by releasing the hostages
in which case Israel says it will allow
water and medicine and gas and
electricity to go back into the Gaza
Strip or are you going to prioritize
maintaining 150 kidnaps people from
multiple countries at least 20 countries
have been affected so far we know that
there are Americans who are kidnapped we
know that there are 20 Americans at
least have' been killed and it forces a
Hamas to make that that choice right and
on this blockade how dependent is the
territory on supplies coming in uh from
Israel uh Gaza is tremendously dependent
on U material coming in from the outside
most of that ironically comes from
Israel not from Egypt and you'd have to
raise that with the Egyptians but from
the Israeli perspective and I think this
might be surprising to many you they
want stability in Gaza the Israeli
calculation has been make sure that
there's enough ility in Gaza enough
Economic Opportunity so that there will
be calm and clearly that calculation did
not fly because at the end of the day
Hamas decided to put that at risk so
that it could carry out a barbaric
attack like the one that it did in
southern Israel all right and on the
point of tax collection Gaza uh is
struggles with poverty unemployment
level where do those tax revenues come
from that uh Hamas uses for its
terrorist
operations
first of all Hamas is able to tax any
money that comes in so when the
government of katar for example provides
money for Hamas salaries they're able to
use some of that money for the actual
salaries but the government also takes a
cut of its own the Gaza Strip is a
closed small enclave and there's not a
whole lot of economic activity but there
is economic activity daily life does go
on and every aspect of daily life is
taxed by Hamas any Goods that come in
and do Goods do come in again primarily
from Israel on a daily basis uh the
Israelis used to allow truck after truck
to go through and all of that is taxed
so at the end of the day there's a
significant amount of economic activity
that does happen even in an enclave like
the Gaza Strip and Hamas taxed that
heavily right and going back to its uh
one of its most prominent external
funders Iran Iran is funding the likes
of Hamas and Hezbollah uh and will face
Western sanctions for this so what's
really in it for a funer like
Iran for Iran this is an extremely
effective and cost effective way to
extend its influence well beyond its
borders Iran is under all kinds of
sanctions but Iran like Hamas does not
prioritize its constituency it
prioritizes its
militancy and so even under the Trump
administration's maximum pressure
campaign Iran prioritized getting money
first of all to Hezbollah and the
amounts We Believe be somewhere between
700 million And1 billion dollar a year
and secondarily to Palestinian groups
primarily Hamas which together we
believe is about a hundred million a
year most of that to Hamas in the scope
of things Iran is a big country it's a
big economy even under sanction these
are funds again if you prioritize this
over your constituency that you can
afford even under
sanction right and on this point of uh
Hamas relations with other countries in
Mar uh Hamas delegation went to Moscow
for talks with Russian officials uh do
we know any any details about the
relationship between Hamas and
Russia we do and obviously it's a
growing and disturbing relationship that
extends not only into the Middle East
but well into Ukraine as Iran is
providing drones and now there's talking
even of different types of missiles to
Russia to use in its war of choice
against Ukraine targeting civilian
targets there in return Iran wants help
being able to evade sanctions it wants
help with its military program and
people worry potentially even about its
nuclear program Iran and Syria are also
close allies in defense of the Assad
regime in Syria where they're also
working closely with Lebanese Hezbollah
in at least one financing scheme that
the US Treasury Department targeted Iran
was engaged in an ilicit oil scheme that
involved raising funds for its own
Islamic revolutionary guard KS Force
also for Hezbollah and in this case also
for Hamas that particular financing
scheme involved Russian Financial
activity as
well right so we have been able to trace
Russian activity to funding that has
gone to M
then yes coming back to the uh to the
gazan territory how important will
remittances will Aid be for the people
in the gazen territory going forward
with the
situation remittances are not as big an
issue for the Gaza Strip but
International Aid is the money coming
from Qatar the goods allowed in from
Israel and United Nations European union
and United States and other
International Aid is critical Hamas by
taking an action like this puts all of
that at risk you've probably heard about
the EU debating internally whether or
not to cut off Aid to the Palestinians
and general just to Hamas and the Gaza
Strip is there a way to continue funds
going into the Gaza Strip without it
going to Hamas no uh so this is a very
very complicated issue nobody wants the
average citizen in that has suffer Hamas
is bringing the suffering upon them
right so you're saying that there is no
way to provide Aid to people in Gaza
without it also going into the hands of
of
Hamas Hamas controls the Gaza Strip full
stop International organizations are
there on the ground but they operate at
the whim of Hamas they're also operating
under War conditions right now also the
choice of Hamas and so the idea of
stopping funds to International
organizations is is a very very
uncomfortable one they will be able to
do some things but they can't do
everything and uh um at any large scale
level activities that go on in the Gaza
Strip go on with Hamas is blessing or
not right and looking at the Israeli
side of this conflict now uh what kind
of costs is Israel facing now with with
this
conflict
conflict like this uh the Hamas War uh
could cost Israel easily into the
billions of dollars both in the
expenditures for uh defense and and and
uh trying to uh save the hostages and to
make it so that Hamas is not able to do
something like this ever again and also
of course in terms of uh lost uh
Economic Opportunity uh report
reportedly 300 to 400,000 Israelis have
been called up to reserve duty that's a
very significant proportion of a
population of about five million uh
those people are not at work that that
uh you know business activity is not
happening and so uh this will be very
expensive uh but when a country is
attacked from an external neighbor it
has no choice but to uh rally itself to
uh defend its citizens and its borders
and to uh deal with the consequences uh
in terms of the domestic economic effect
afterwards Matthew love it thank you so
much for speaking to us
today my
pleasure and that was our DW business
special for more in-depth interviews and
business explainers check out the DW
news YouTube
channel